# CRYPTO-LOGIC

## Introduction
Welcome to **CRYPTO-LOGIC**! This word game coded in Python is the first major project that I completed in my Fundamentals of Computing class at Jacksonville State University, as well as my first major coding project in general. The game's premise is rather simple: a word is randomly selected from a text file and has its letters scrambled. The player is then tasked with guessing the original word, one letter at a time, while making as few mistakes as possible.

## Process
1. The first thing the program does is import Python's "**random**" module, as it contains functions that are vital to the program's success.

2. After importing "**random**," the program must create the scrambled word. It begins by opening "**wordlist.txt**," a text file with one word on each of its lines. There are 300 words in this file: 100 of them are six letters long, 100 of them are seven letters long, and 100 of them are eight letters or longer. After opening this file, the program reads every line of the file into the variable "**words**" and closes the file. Then, using the "**choice()**" function from the "**random**" module, the program selects a random word from "**words**," converts it to uppercase letters, and saves it to the variable "**wordRandom**." Before moving on to the scrambling, the program replaces all of the newline characters ("\n") in "**wordLetters**" with empty space to ensure that no newline characters are scrambled with the rest of the chosen word. After doing this, the word saved in "**wordRandom**" is split into a list of its individual letters and saved into the variable "**wordLetters**." This newly created list is then scrambled using the "**random**" module's "**shuffle()**" function and saved into a variable named "**wordScramble**."

3. After the chosen word has been scrambled, the game can begin. The program begins the game by using its "**intro()**" function to print messages to the screen that welcome the player and inform them of the game's objective. It then transitions into its "**game()**" function, where the "**bad_guess**" and "**index**" variables are initialized and set to the value of '0.' The variable "**wordAnswer**" is initialized as well and has an empty string saved to it. Following these initializations, the program moves into its while loop, where an incorrect guess counter, the scrambled word (which has been rejoined into a word using the "**join()**" function), "**wordAnswer**," and an input line for the player's guess is printed onto the screen. After the player enters their guess, their input is compared with the character in "**wordRandom**" that corresponds with the number currently saved in "**index**." If these two characters are different (or the player has entered multiple characters), the incorrect guess counter is increased by one and the loop repeats. If the two characters are the same, the correct letter is added to "**wordAnswer**," "**index**" is increased by one, and the loop repeats. This cycle continues until the number saved to "**index**" is greater than the length of the random word, which tells the program that the player has correctly guessed the original word and the game is over.

4. When the player is victorious, the game prints out a congratulatory message and displays how many incorrect guesses were made before guessing the word correctly. The user is then prompted to press the **Enter** key to exit the program.
